product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_sql/22_create_directory.mdx, before:

---
title: "CREATE DIRECTORY"
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/reference/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-reference-guide/9.6/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Reference_Guide.1.036.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.066.html"
redirects:
  - /epas/latest/epas_compat_sql/22_create_directory/ #generated for docs/epas/reorg-role-use-case-mode
---

<div id="create_directory" class="registered_link"></div>

## Name

`CREATE DIRECTORY` &mdash; Create an alias for a file system directory path.

## Synopsis

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY <name> AS '<pathname>'
```

## Description

The `CREATE DIRECTORY` command creates an alias for a file system directory pathname. You must be a database superuser to use this command.

When you specify the alias as the appropriate parameter to the programs of the `UTL_FILE` package, the operating system files are created in or accessed from the directory corresponding to the alias.

## Parameters

`name`

 The directory alias name.

`pathname`

 The fully qualified directory path represented by the alias name. The `CREATE DIRECTORY` command doesn't create the operating system directory. The physical directory must be created independently using operating system commands.

## Notes

The operating system user id `enterprisedb` must have the appropriate read and write privileges on the directory if you want to use the `UTL_FILE` package to create or read files using the directory.

The directory alias is stored in the `pg_catalog.edb_dir` system catalog table. 

!!!Note
The `edb_dir` table isn't compatible with Oracle databases.
!!!

You can also view the directory alias from the Oracle catalog views `SYS.ALL_DIRECTORIES` and `SYS.DBA_DIRECTORIES`. These views are compatible with Oracle databases.

Use the `DROP DIRECTORY` command to delete the directory alias. Deleting a directory alias doesn't affect the corresponding physical file system directory. Delete the file system directory using operating system commands.

In a Linux system, the directory name separator is a forward slash `(/)`.

In a Windows system, you can specify the directory name separator as a forward slash `(/)` or two consecutive backslashes `(\\)`.

## Examples

Create an alias named `empdir` for the directory `/tmp/empdir` on Linux:

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY empdir AS '/tmp/empdir';
```

Create an alias named `empdir` for the directory `C:\TEMP\EMPDIR` on Windows:

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY empdir AS 'C:/TEMP/EMPDIR';
```

View all of the directory aliases:

```sql
SELECT * FROM pg_catalog.edb_dir;
__OUTPUT__
dirname | dirowner |    dirpath     | diracl
--------+----------+----------------+--------
 empdir |       10 | C:/TEMP/EMPDIR |
(1 row)
```

View the directory aliases using a view compatible with Oracle databases:

```sql
SELECT * FROM SYS.ALL_DIRECTORIES;
__OUTPUT__
    owner     | directory_name | directory_path
--------------+----------------+----------------
 ENTERPRISEDB | EMPDIR         | C:/TEMP/EMPDIR
(1 row)
```

## See also

[ALTER DIRECTORY](02_alter_directory/#alter_directory), [DROP DIRECTORY](46_drop_directory/#drop_directory)

Commit message:

Added text describing the requirement for CREATE ANY DIRECTORY and DROP ANY DIRECTORY

product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_sql/22_create_directory.mdx, after:

---
title: "CREATE DIRECTORY"
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/reference/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-reference-guide/9.6/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Reference_Guide.1.036.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.066.html"
redirects:
  - /epas/latest/epas_compat_sql/22_create_directory/ #generated for docs/epas/reorg-role-use-case-mode
---

<div id="create_directory" class="registered_link"></div>

## Name

`CREATE DIRECTORY` &mdash; Create an alias for a file system directory path.

## Synopsis

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY <name> AS '<pathname>'
```

## Description

To create directories, you must have the `CREATE ANY DIRECTORY` system privilege.

When you create a directory, you are automatically granted the `READ`, `WRITE`, and `EXECUTE` privileges on the directory, and you can grant `READ`, `WRITE`, and `EXECUTE` privileges to other users and roles. The DBA can also grant these privileges to other users and roles.

The `CREATE DIRECTORY` command creates an alias for a file system directory pathname. 

When you specify the alias as the appropriate parameter to the programs of the `UTL_FILE` package, the operating system files are created in or accessed from the directory corresponding to the alias.

## Parameters

`name`

 The directory alias name.

`pathname`

 The fully qualified directory path represented by the alias name. The `CREATE DIRECTORY` command doesn't create the operating system directory. The physical directory must be created independently using operating system commands.

## Notes

The operating system user id `enterprisedb` must have the appropriate read and write privileges on the directory if you want to use the `UTL_FILE` package to create or read files using the directory.

The directory alias is stored in the `pg_catalog.edb_dir` system catalog table. 

!!!Note
The `edb_dir` table isn't compatible with Oracle databases.
!!!

You can also view the directory alias from the Oracle catalog views `SYS.ALL_DIRECTORIES` and `SYS.DBA_DIRECTORIES`. These views are compatible with Oracle databases.

Use the `DROP DIRECTORY` command to delete the directory alias. Deleting a directory alias doesn't affect the corresponding physical file system directory. Delete the file system directory using operating system commands.

In a Linux system, the directory name separator is a forward slash `(/)`.

In a Windows system, you can specify the directory name separator as a forward slash `(/)` or two consecutive backslashes `(\\)`.

## Examples

Create an alias named `empdir` for the directory `/tmp/empdir` on Linux:

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY empdir AS '/tmp/empdir';
```

Create an alias named `empdir` for the directory `C:\TEMP\EMPDIR` on Windows:

```sql
CREATE DIRECTORY empdir AS 'C:/TEMP/EMPDIR';
```

View all of the directory aliases:

```sql
SELECT * FROM pg_catalog.edb_dir;
__OUTPUT__
dirname | dirowner |    dirpath     | diracl
--------+----------+----------------+--------
 empdir |       10 | C:/TEMP/EMPDIR |
(1 row)
```

View the directory aliases using a view compatible with Oracle databases:

```sql
SELECT * FROM SYS.ALL_DIRECTORIES;
__OUTPUT__
    owner     | directory_name | directory_path
--------------+----------------+----------------
 ENTERPRISEDB | EMPDIR         | C:/TEMP/EMPDIR
(1 row)
```

## See also

[ALTER DIRECTORY](02_alter_directory/#alter_directory), [DROP DIRECTORY](46_drop_directory/#drop_directory)
