product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_sql/46_drop_directory.mdx, before:

---
title: "DROP DIRECTORY"
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/reference/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-reference-guide/9.6/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Reference_Guide.1.060.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.088.html"
redirects:
  - /epas/latest/epas_compat_sql/46_drop_directory/ #generated for docs/epas/reorg-role-use-case-mode
---

<div id="drop_directory" class="registered_link"></div>

## Name

`DROP DIRECTORY` &mdash; Remove a directory alias for a file system directory path.

## Synopsis

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY <name>
```

## Description

`DROP DIRECTORY` drops an existing alias for a file system directory path that was created with the `CREATE DIRECTORY` command. To execute this command, you must be a superuser.

When you delete a directory alias, the corresponding physical file system directory isn't affected. To delete the file system directory, use operating system commands.

## Parameters

`name`

 The name of a directory alias to remove.

## Examples

Remove the directory alias `empdir`:

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY empdir;
```

## See also

[CREATE DIRECTORY](22_create_directory/#create_directory), [ALTER DIRECTORY](02_alter_directory/#alter_directory)

Commit message:

Added text describing the requirement for CREATE ANY DIRECTORY and DROP ANY DIRECTORY

product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_sql/46_drop_directory.mdx, after:

---
title: "DROP DIRECTORY"
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/reference/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-reference-guide/9.6/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Reference_Guide.1.060.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.088.html"
redirects:
  - /epas/latest/epas_compat_sql/46_drop_directory/ #generated for docs/epas/reorg-role-use-case-mode
---

<div id="drop_directory" class="registered_link"></div>

## Name

`DROP DIRECTORY` &mdash; Remove a directory alias for a file system directory path.

## Synopsis

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY <name>
```

## Description

You must have the `DROP ANY DIRECTORY` system privilege to drop a directory.

`DROP DIRECTORY` drops an existing alias for a file system directory path that was created with the `CREATE DIRECTORY` command. To execute this command, you must be a superuser.

When you delete a directory alias, the corresponding physical file system directory isn't affected. To delete the file system directory, use operating system commands.

## Parameters

`name`

 The name of a directory alias to remove.

## Examples

Remove the directory alias `empdir`:

```sql
DROP DIRECTORY empdir;
```

## See also

[CREATE DIRECTORY](22_create_directory/#create_directory), [ALTER DIRECTORY](02_alter_directory/#alter_directory)
