advocacy_docs/repos/working_with_repos/integrating/artifactory.mdx, before:

---
title: Using Hosted Artifactory with EDB repositories
navTitle: Artifactory
description: How to use JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories
---

To set up JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories, you need to create remote repositories in Artifactory. This article shows how to use JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories.

## Get the base URLs

The process is requires a base URLs to access the EDB repositories.

1. From your EDB account, [get your token](../../getting_started/with_cli/get_your_token).

1. Make a note of your token, for our examples, the token will be `xyz123`.

1. Select the repository you want to access, for example, `standard`. :

1. Your base URL will is then formed as:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/<token>/<repository>/
    ```

    For the `standard` with our token, the repository, the base URL will be:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/
    ```

1. Append the appropriate path for the repository type. 
   For example, for a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 on x86 architecture, append `rpm/el/9/x86_64/` and seperately append `rpm/el/9/noarch/` for the noarch packages, to create two base URLs. With our example, the base URLs will be:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/x86_64/
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/noarch/
    ```

## Setup Artifactory remote repositories

With your base URLs, you can now create the remote repositories in Artifactory.

Use the Artifactory UI to create the 2 repositories (`x86_64` and `noarch`), one for each base URL. The `x86_64` repository will contain the `rpm` packages specifically for the `x86_64` architecture, and the `noarch` repository will contain the `rpm` packages which are for any architecture.

Starting with the `x86_64` base URL:

1. Select **Create Repository** and choose **Remote**.
1. Choose **rpm** as the repository type.
1. Enter a unique name for the repository key, for example, `edb-x86_64`.
1. Fill in the URL as `https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/x86_64/`.
1. Select **Create Remote Repository**.

At this point, a prompt to setup the `yum` client configuration appears. This client configuration is the configuration you use on your local server or VM to access the configured EDB repositories via Artifactory.

6.  On your local RHEL 9 server or VM create the yum repository file `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo`.
    
7.  Add the text generated by Artifactory to the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file. The generated text should resemble:
    
    ```
    [Artifactory]
    name=Artifactory
    baseurl=https://username%40domain:{artifactory_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/<PATH_TO_REPODATA_FOLDER>
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```
    
    Remove the `<PATH_TO_REPODATA_FOLDER>` from the baseurl. It's not needed.

    You should also edit the `Atrifactory` name to be more descriptive and unique as there are multiple repositories to add. For example, append `-edb-x86_64` to the name to give:

    ```
    [Artifactory-edb-x86_64]
    name=Artifactory-edb-x86_64
    baseurl=https://username%40domain:{artifactory_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```

    Save the file.
    
8.  Repeat the process, steps 1-7, to create an Artifactory remote repository for the `noarch` repository. When you generate the **yum** configuration text, add that text to the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file previously created. The file should now contain:

    ```
    [Artifactory-edb-x86_64]
    name=Artifactory-edb-x86_64
    baseurl=username%40domain:{artifactry_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    
    [Artifactory-edb-noarch]
    name=Artifactory-edb-noarch
    baseurl=username%40domain:{artifactry_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-noarch/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```

## Check the configuration works

On the local Linux server where the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file resides, check that the repositories configuration is correct by running the following command:


```bash
dnf repolist | grep -i Art
```    

The output returned should be:

```
Artifactory-edb-noarch                   Artifactory-edb-noarch
Artifactory-edb-x86_64                   Artifactory-edb-x86_64
```
    
As you can see the two repositories are now configured. 

You can now check for a specific package, such as `postgresextended` in the Artifactory repository, using the `dnf list` command. The package name for this example is `edb-postgresextended15-server` which is EDB Postgres Extended 15. To ensure that you don't get false positives from other repositories,  disable all repositories using `--disable-repo=*` and then only enable the `Artifactory-` prefixed repositories using `--enablerepo=Artifactory-*`:

```bash
dnf list edb-postgresextended15-server --disablerepo=* --enablerepo=Artifactory-*
```

If configured and working correctly the output should resemble:

```
Updating Subscription Management repositories.
Last metadata expiration check: 0:01:58 ago on Thu 04 Jul 2024 06:00:31 EDT.
Available Packages
edb-postgresextended15-server.x86_64                                                                                     15.7-2.el9                                                                                     Artifactory-edb-x86_64
```    

The EDB package `edb-postgresextended15-server` is now available to install from the Artifactory repository.

Commit message:

Make clear it is hosted artifactory

advocacy_docs/repos/working_with_repos/integrating/artifactory.mdx, after:

---
title: Using Hosted Artifactory with EDB repositories
navTitle: Hosted Artifactory
description: How to use Hosted JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories
---

To set up Hosted JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories, you need to create remote repositories in Artifactory. This article shows how to use Hosted JFrog Artifactory with EDB repositories. The process is different for on-premises Artifactory.

## Get the base URLs

The process is requires a base URLs to access the EDB repositories.

1. From your EDB account, [get your token](../../getting_started/with_cli/get_your_token).

1. Make a note of your token, for our examples, the token will be `xyz123`.

1. Select the repository you want to access, for example, `standard`. :

1. Your base URL will is then formed as:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/<token>/<repository>/
    ```

    For the `standard` with our token, the repository, the base URL will be:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/
    ```

1. Append the appropriate path for the repository type. 
   For example, for a Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 on x86 architecture, append `rpm/el/9/x86_64/` and seperately append `rpm/el/9/noarch/` for the noarch packages, to create two base URLs. With our example, the base URLs will be:

    ```
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/x86_64/
    https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/noarch/
    ```

## Setup Artifactory remote repositories

With your base URLs, you can now create the remote repositories in Artifactory.

Use the Artifactory UI to create the 2 repositories (`x86_64` and `noarch`), one for each base URL. The `x86_64` repository will contain the `rpm` packages specifically for the `x86_64` architecture, and the `noarch` repository will contain the `rpm` packages which are for any architecture.

Starting with the `x86_64` base URL:

1. Select **Create Repository** and choose **Remote**.
1. Choose **rpm** as the repository type.
1. Enter a unique name for the repository key, for example, `edb-x86_64`.
1. Fill in the URL as `https://downloads.enterprisedb.com/xyz123/standard/rpm/el/9/x86_64/`.
1. Select **Create Remote Repository**.

At this point, a prompt to setup the `yum` client configuration appears. This client configuration is the configuration you use on your local server or VM to access the configured EDB repositories via Artifactory.

6.  On your local RHEL 9 server or VM create the yum repository file `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo`.
    
7.  Add the text generated by Artifactory to the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file. The generated text should resemble:
    
    ```
    [Artifactory]
    name=Artifactory
    baseurl=https://username%40domain:{artifactory_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/<PATH_TO_REPODATA_FOLDER>
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```
    
    Remove the `<PATH_TO_REPODATA_FOLDER>` from the baseurl. It's not needed.

    You should also edit the `Atrifactory` name to be more descriptive and unique as there are multiple repositories to add. For example, append `-edb-x86_64` to the name to give:

    ```
    [Artifactory-edb-x86_64]
    name=Artifactory-edb-x86_64
    baseurl=https://username%40domain:{artifactory_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```

    Save the file.
    
8.  Repeat the process, steps 1-7, to create an Artifactory remote repository for the `noarch` repository. When you generate the **yum** configuration text, add that text to the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file previously created. The file should now contain:

    ```
    [Artifactory-edb-x86_64]
    name=Artifactory-edb-x86_64
    baseurl=username%40domain:{artifactry_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-x86_64/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    
    [Artifactory-edb-noarch]
    name=Artifactory-edb-noarch
    baseurl=username%40domain:{artifactry_token}@username.jfrog.io/artifactory/edb-noarch/
    enabled=1
    gpgcheck=0
    ```

## Check the configuration works

On the local Linux server where the `/etc/yum.repos.d/artifactory-edb.repo` file resides, check that the repositories configuration is correct by running the following command:


```bash
dnf repolist | grep -i Art
```    

The output returned should be:

```
Artifactory-edb-noarch                   Artifactory-edb-noarch
Artifactory-edb-x86_64                   Artifactory-edb-x86_64
```
    
As you can see the two repositories are now configured. 

You can now check for a specific package, such as `postgresextended` in the Artifactory repository, using the `dnf list` command. The package name for this example is `edb-postgresextended15-server` which is EDB Postgres Extended 15. To ensure that you don't get false positives from other repositories,  disable all repositories using `--disable-repo=*` and then only enable the `Artifactory-` prefixed repositories using `--enablerepo=Artifactory-*`:

```bash
dnf list edb-postgresextended15-server --disablerepo=* --enablerepo=Artifactory-*
```

If configured and working correctly the output should resemble:

```
Updating Subscription Management repositories.
Last metadata expiration check: 0:01:58 ago on Thu 04 Jul 2024 06:00:31 EDT.
Available Packages
edb-postgresextended15-server.x86_64                                                                                     15.7-2.el9                                                                                     Artifactory-edb-x86_64
```    

The EDB package `edb-postgresextended15-server` is now available to install from the Artifactory repository.
