product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_bip_guide/03_built-in_packages/06_dbms_lob/loadclobfromfile.mdx, before:

---
title: "LOADCLOBFROMFILE"
---

The `LOADCLOBFROMFILE` procedure loads data from a BFILE to an internal CLOB.

```sql
LOADCLOBFROMFILE (<dest_lob> IN OUT NOCOPY BLOB, <src_file> IN BFILE, <amount> IN INTEGER,
    <dest_offset> IN OUT INTEGER, <src_offset> IN OUT INTEGER), <src_csid> IN NUMBER, 
    <lang_context> IN OUT INTEGER, <warning> OUT INTEGER
```

## Parameters

`dest_lob`

Locator of the CLOB where data will be loaded.

`src_file`

Locator of the BFILE that is the source to be loaded.

`amount`

Number of bytes to load from the BFILE.

`dest_offset`

For IN, the offset in characters in the destination CLOB (origin: 1) for the start of the load. For OUT, the new offset in characters in the destination CLOB at the end of this load, which is also where the next load should begin.

`src_csid`

The character set ID of the source BFILE.

`lang_context`

For IN, the language context for the current load. For OUT, the language context when the load stopped and what the next load should if loading continues from the same source.

`warning`

For OUT, a message warning that something abnormal occurred during loading.


## Example

``` sql
DECLARE
  src_loc     bfile := bfilename('ADVERT_DIR','ad_source_1000') ;
  dst_loc     clob  ;
  amt         number := dbms_lob.lobmaxsize;
  src_offset  number := 1 ;
  dst_offset  number := 1 ;
  lang_ctx    number := dbms_lob.default_lang_ctx;
  warning     number;
BEGIN
   SELECT p2 INTO dst_loc FROM bfiletest 
      WHERE p1=20;   /* Open the BFILEs: */
  dbms_lob.fileopen(src_loc, dbms_lob.file_readonly);

  /* The default_csid can be used when the BFILE encoding is in the same charset
   * as the destination CLOB/NCLOB charset
   */
   dbms_lob.LOADCLOBFROMFILE(dst_loc,src_loc, amt, dst_offset, src_offset,                               
       dbms_lob.default_csid, lang_ctx,warning) ;

  commit;

  dbms_output.put_line(' Amount specified ' || amt ) ;
  dbms_output.put_line(' Number of bytes read from source: ' || 
      (src_offset-1));
  dbms_output.put_line(' Number of characters written to destination: ' || 
      (dst_offset-1) );
  if (warning = dbms_lob.warn_inconvertible_char) 
  then
    dbms_output.put_line('Warning: Inconvertible character');
  end if;


  dbms_output.put_line(' CLOB value is ' || dst_loc ) ;

  dbms_lob.filecloseall() ;
END ;
```

Commit message:

A few more edits to BFILE

product_docs/docs/epas/17/reference/oracle_compatibility_reference/epas_compat_bip_guide/03_built-in_packages/06_dbms_lob/loadclobfromfile.mdx, after:

---
title: "LOADCLOBFROMFILE"
---

The `LOADCLOBFROMFILE` procedure loads data from a BFILE to an internal CLOB.

```sql
LOADCLOBFROMFILE (<dest_lob> IN OUT NOCOPY BLOB, <src_bfile> IN BFILE, 
   <amount> IN INTEGER, <dest_offset> IN OUT INTEGER, 
   <src_offset> IN OUT INTEGER), <src_csid> IN NUMBER, 
  <lang_context> IN OUT INTEGER, <warning> OUT INTEGER
```

## Parameters

`dest_lob`

Locator of the CLOB where data will be loaded.

`src_bfile`

Locator of the BFILE that is the source to be loaded.

`amount`

Number of bytes to load from the BFILE.

`dest_offset`

For IN, the offset in characters in the destination CLOB (origin: 1) for the start of the write. For OUT, the new offset in characters in the destination CLOB at the end of this load, which is also where the next load should begin.

`src_offset`

For IN, the offset in bytes in the source BFILE (origin: 1) for the start of the read. For OUT, the new offset in characters in the destination CLOB at the end of this load, which is also where the next load should begin.

`src_csid`

The character set ID of the source BFILE.

`lang_context`

For IN, the language context for the current load. For OUT, the language context when the load stopped and what the next load should be if loading continues from the same source.

`warning`

For OUT, a message warning that something abnormal occurred during loading.


## Example

``` sql
DECLARE
  src_loc     bfile := bfilename('ADVERT_DIR','ad_source_1000') ;
  dst_loc     clob  ;
  amt         number := dbms_lob.lobmaxsize;
  src_offset  number := 1 ;
  dst_offset  number := 1 ;
  lang_ctx    number := dbms_lob.default_lang_ctx;
  warning     number;
BEGIN
   SELECT p2 INTO dst_loc FROM bfiletest 
      WHERE p1=20;   /* Open the BFILEs: */
  dbms_lob.fileopen(src_loc, dbms_lob.file_readonly);

  /* The default_csid can be used when the BFILE encoding is in the same charset
   * as the destination CLOB/NCLOB charset
   */
   dbms_lob.LOADCLOBFROMFILE(dst_loc,src_loc, amt, dst_offset, src_offset,                               
       dbms_lob.default_csid, lang_ctx,warning) ;

  commit;

  dbms_output.put_line(' Amount specified ' || amt ) ;
  dbms_output.put_line(' Number of bytes read from source: ' || 
      (src_offset-1));
  dbms_output.put_line(' Number of characters written to destination: ' || 
      (dst_offset-1) );
  if (warning = dbms_lob.warn_inconvertible_char) 
  then
    dbms_output.put_line('Warning: Inconvertible character');
  end if;


  dbms_output.put_line(' CLOB value is ' || dst_loc ) ;

  dbms_lob.filecloseall() ;
END ;
```
