product_docs/docs/epas/17/managing_performance/04_dynamic_runtime_instrumentation_tools_architecture_DRITA/index.mdx, before:

---
title: "Using the dynamic runtime instrumentation tools architecture (DRITA)"
description: "How to use Dynamic Runtime Instrumentation Tools Architecture to query catalog views"
indexCards: simple
navigation:
  - taking_a_snapshot
  - using_drita_functions
  - performance_tuning_recommendations
  - simulating_statspack_reports
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.20.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.19.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.21.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.22.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.23.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.24.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.322.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.323.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.321.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.318.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.320.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.319.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.145.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.144.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.143.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.141.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.142.html"
---

<div id="dynamic_runtime_instrumentation_tools_architecture_DRITA" class="registered_link"></div>

The Dynamic Runtime Instrumentation Tools Architecture (DRITA) enables a DBA to query catalog views to determine the *wait events* that affect the performance of individual sessions or the whole system. DRITA records the number of times each event occurs as well as the time spent waiting. You can use this information to diagnose performance problems. 

DRITA compares *snapshots* to evaluate the performance of a system. A snapshot is a saved set of system performance data at a given point in time. A unique ID number identifies each snapshot. You can use snapshot ID numbers with DRITA reporting functions to return system performance statistics. DRITA consumes minimal system resources.

Commit message:

Added a deprecation note for DRITA as per [DB-2717](https://enterprisedb.atlassian.net/browse/DB-2717)

product_docs/docs/epas/17/managing_performance/04_dynamic_runtime_instrumentation_tools_architecture_DRITA/index.mdx, after:

---
title: "Using the dynamic runtime instrumentation tools architecture (DRITA)"
description: "How to use Dynamic Runtime Instrumentation Tools Architecture to query catalog views"
indexCards: simple
navigation:
  - taking_a_snapshot
  - using_drita_functions
  - performance_tuning_recommendations
  - simulating_statspack_reports
legacyRedirectsGenerated:
  # This list is generated by a script. If you need add entries, use the `legacyRedirects` key.
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.20.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.19.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.21.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.22.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.23.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-tools-and-utilities-guide/9.6/DB_Compat_for_Oracle_Dev_Tools_Guide.1.24.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.322.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.323.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.321.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.318.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.320.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/database-compatibility-for-oracle-developers-guide/9.5/Database_Compatibility_for_Oracle_Developers_Guide.1.319.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.145.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.144.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.143.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.141.html"
  - "/edb-docs/d/edb-postgres-advanced-server/user-guides/user-guide/9.5/EDB_Postgres_Enterprise_Guide.1.142.html"
---

<div id="dynamic_runtime_instrumentation_tools_architecture_DRITA" class="registered_link"></div>


!!! Note Deprecation
With the release of EPAS 17, the DRITA is being deprecated and will not be included in EPAS 18. This decision follows the introduction of [EDB’s PWR](/pwr/latest/) and [`edb_wait_states`](/pg_extensions/wait_states/) extensions, which offer improved diagnostic capabilities compared to DRITA. These new extensions provide a diagnostic experience more closely aligned with Oracle’s AWR reports, making DRITA obsolete.
!!!

The Dynamic Runtime Instrumentation Tools Architecture (DRITA) enables a DBA to query catalog views to determine the *wait events* that affect the performance of individual sessions or the whole system. DRITA records the number of times each event occurs as well as the time spent waiting. You can use this information to diagnose performance problems. 

DRITA compares *snapshots* to evaluate the performance of a system. A snapshot is a saved set of system performance data at a given point in time. A unique ID number identifies each snapshot. You can use snapshot ID numbers with DRITA reporting functions to return system performance statistics. DRITA consumes minimal system resources.
